So now let's talk about AWS Organizations.
So it's a global service
and it allows you to manage multiple AWS accounts
at the same time.
So you create an organization
and the main account in your organization
is called the management account,
while the other accounts that join the organization
or that are created from the organizations
are called member accounts.
And remember, accounts can only be part of one organization.
The cool thing about organization
is that the billing is consolidated
across all the accounts.
So you have a single payment method
on the management account
and then it will be paying for all the organization's cost.
But because you have an organization
and it's all part of one big family,
then you get pricing benefits from aggregated usage.
So if you use a lot EC2 or if you use a lot Amazon S3
across all your accounts,
then you will get big discounts,
because it will summarize and sum up
all the usage across all the accounts.
You can also share reserved instances
and saving plans discounts across accounts.
So if a reserved instance is unused in one account,
another account can benefit from it
and therefor the discounts apply
across the entire organization,
which is really good for cost savings.
Now, there's also an API
to automate the account creation
from within the organization.
So you can create accounts very easily
using an organization.
So how does that work?
So we have what's called a root organizational unit, or OU,
and this is the outermost OU of your accounts
and then within it sits the management account.
Then you can create sub-OUs,
so you can create for example an OU for the dev accounts
and then you can create member accounts within the dev OU
or you can create OU for a prod account
and also add member accounts there,
but you can be as free as you want.
You can create within the prod OU,
an OU for your HR member accounts
and an OU for your finance member accounts.
So you can organize it the way you want.
So you have different examples for your OUs.
So you can organize by business units,
so you have for example,
the management account and then the sales,
retail and finance OU
and then different accounts within each OU.
Or you can have an OU by environment,
so for example, one OU for prod,
one OU for test, one OU for dev
and within each OU, some accounts.
Or project-based, so you can have an OU per project
within an account, within each project.
And you can mix and match.
You're really free to do whatever you want.
So what are the advantages of using organizations?
Well, thanks to having multiple accounts,
you can have better security
versus having one account with multiple VPC,
because accounts are more separated than VPCs.
You can also enforce tagging standards
for billing purposes
and you can in one go, enable CloudTrail
for all your accounts
and send all the logs into a central S3 account,
or we can also send CloudWatch logs
to a central logging account
and we can establish cross account roles
for admin purposes automatically.
So we can administer all the other accounts
from the management account.
So these are big advantages.
Also, there's a big security advantage.
We can define service control policies, or SCP,
and it's an IAM policy applied to specific OUs or accounts
and this allows you to restrict
what the users and roles all of them can do
within the accounts.
The SCPs apply to everything
but to the management account,
which will forever have full admin power,
otherwise you could do a mistake
and never come back from it.
So the SCP have the specificity
that if you need to compute what is happening
on this specific account,
you need to make sure that each OU, including the root,
has an explicit allow along the way
to allow a specific action.
This will be very clear in this example.
So let's take for example, a root OU
and we apply full AWS access underneath.
So the management account is under the root OU
and then we have more OU,
the Sandbox, the workload, test and prod,
with accounts within the OUs.
So if we apply an SCP,
which is deny Athena on the management account,
what is happening to the management account?
Well, the management account can do anything,
because there's a role that says that no SCP
ever apply to the management account.
This is a safety, because of course,
if you lock yourself out of your management account,
this would be terrible.
So remember, the management account
can do anything, no matter what.
But let's say for example,
we apply on the Sandbox OU
a full AWS access plus deny S3.
So as you can see, here we still need
to apply full AWS access
to give allow to everything explicitly,
because if we didn't have full AWS access,
then nothing would be allowed within that OU.
So explicit allows are needed every single way.
And on account A, say, we will also do
apply full AWS access and deny EC2,
then account A can do anything,
because it has full AWS access on the root OU
and on the Sandbox OU and on the account itself,
but because we have two explicit denies,
we have one deny S3 from the Sandbox
and one deny EC2 from the account itself,
then it cannot access Amazon S3 or Amazon EC2.
For accounts B and C,
because it don't have a specific SCP attached to them,
then they can do anything except accessing Amazon S3,
because you have an explicit deny
coming from the Sandbox OU.
Next, if we apply full AWS access to the workloads OU
and we also apply an allow EC2 SCP to the test OU
then account D can only access EC2
and if we look at the prod OU
and accounts E and F within it, well, we must first apply
the full AWS access SCP to the prod OU
and then accounts E and F can do anything.
So here are some examples for SCPs.
This is the first one is a blocking of a specific service.
So first, we allow all actions
and then we deny DynamoDB or on the allow list,
here, we allow EC2 and CloudWatch,
but we don't allow anything else.
So those are some examples of SCPs.
So that's it for this lecture, I hope you liked it
and I will see you in the next lecture.